The astrological fire signs
are Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius.
In astrology, each
of the elements
represents a way of
manifesting, and fire
has to do with direct action.
Fire burns.
Fire doesn't think about what
it's going to be doing next.
It doesn't have any feelings.
There is no sensation
that fire has.
Fire, once it's started,
just keeps going, burning up
what it can as it goes along.
In fact in the Jungian model,
fire is called intuition,
although we think
of it as action,
because with intuition
there's no thinking
about what it's going to do.
It just does it, based upon
what it kind of assumes it needs
to do in order to stay burning.
Fire is represented in
the zodiac by three signs,
as each of the elements are.
Aries represents cardinal
fire or starting fire.
Aries are the fire starters.
Aries is enthusiastic, but it's
not necessarily persistent.
The Aries basically
gets the fire going.
The Aries person
is the person who's
the pioneer, who's not afraid
to jump into something new.
Aries is the person who
can go into a situation
that he or she has
never been in before
and just figure it
out along the way,
like fire figures out
what it's going to burn.
However, Aries is like a pile
of hay that when it burns,
it burns hot, and it burns fast.
And then it's done.
Aries, accordingly, often
has a difficult time
finishing what it starts because
the enthusiasm is short lived.
The second fire sign is Leo.
Leo is the fixed fire sign.
Fixed signs hold a position.
Leo is like the
summer sun that blazes
every day in the same place.
Leo is immovable.
It's fixed.
It's determined.
It basically keeps showing up.
Leos are legendary for
their loyalty and love.
Leo, in a way, comes
from the heart,
and it holds that
love no matter what.
It's like the unconditional love
of the sun that keeps shining
no matter what
happens here on Earth,
and, accordingly,
Leo can sustain
the fire for long
periods of time
and theoretically
even indefinitely.
The third fire sign
is Sagittarius,
and in Sagittarius, we have
what's called the mutable
or changeable fire sign.
And Sagittarius isn't interested
in starting the fires,
like Aries.
It's not necessarily
about sustaining it.
It's about gaining
perspective on the fire.
When you look at a
fire from far away,
that's the energy
of Sagittarius.
Aries is the bonfire.
Leo is the fire of the hearth
that keeps the heat going
through the winter,
and Sagittarius
is the fire of a distant star.
When you look at
the sky at night
and you see these millions
of points of light,
they just look like points of
light, yet each one of them
is a sun just like our sun.
Accordingly, the
fire of Sagittarius
is often cool, cool compared
to the heat of Aries or of Leo,
and it's cool because
it has distance.
Instead of the fire
of romance, as in Leo,
or the fire of physical
love, as in Aries,
in Sagittarius it's
the fire of friendship.
It's that inspiration that
fuels us to make relationships
that are not based
upon physicality,
but they're based upon ideals.
Sagittarius has to
do with distance,
and the fire of
Sagittarius is perspective.
It's the idea that something
exists, warm or hot,
that's far away and
eventually will change--
because all mutable signs
change-- into whatever
the next element is.
It's almost like
the fire fading out,
but it's still
within our awareness.
It's still within our
consciousness, and yet
all three fire signs
each share the idea
of heat from
different perspectives
or in different stages
of their development.